# kafka with zookeeper

* [Original](https://habr.com/ru/articles/753398/)



The Background

Literally recently, I began to create my own analogue of the Discord service, using web sockets and transmitting messages through the queue. At one point, I needed to check if the messages were in this queue. Then I realized how inconvenient it is every time to enter the docker container and manually enter the command to view all messages in the tops. After the day of analysis and advice from my colleague, an experienced DevOps-engineer Pasha, I came to the conclusion that kafka-ui from the provectus team is the best and most convenient tool for visualizing data in Kafka.
Docker-Compose

First, let's set up our docker-compose to the modern realities of kafka. We will use 3 main images for this.

* zookeeper
* kafka
* kafka-ui

```
version: '2'
services:
  zookeeper:
    image: confluentinc/cp-zookeeper:7.2.1
    hostname: zookeeper
    container_name: zookeeper
    ports:
      - "2181:2181"
    environment:
      ZOOKEEPER_CLIENT_PORT: 2181
      ZOOKEEPER_TICK_TIME: 2000

  kafka:
    image: confluentinc/cp-server:7.2.1
    hostname: kafka
    container_name: kafka
    depends_on:
      - zookeeper
    ports:
      - "9092:9092"
      - "9997:9997"
    environment:
      KAFKA_BROKER_ID: 1
      KAFKA_ZOOKEEPER_CONNECT: 'zookeeper:2181'
      KAFKA_LISTENER_SECURITY_PROTOCOL_MAP: PLAINTEXT:PLAINTEXT,PLAINTEXT_HOST:PLAINTEXT
      KAFKA_ADVERTISED_LISTENERS: PLAINTEXT://kafka:29092,PLAINTEXT_HOST://localhost:9092
      KAFKA_OFFSETS_TOPIC_REPLICATION_FACTOR: 1
      KAFKA_GROUP_INITIAL_REBALANCE_DELAY_MS: 0
      KAFKA_CONFLUENT_LICENSE_TOPIC_REPLICATION_FACTOR: 1
      KAFKA_CONFLUENT_BALANCER_TOPIC_REPLICATION_FACTOR: 1
      KAFKA_TRANSACTION_STATE_LOG_MIN_ISR: 1
      KAFKA_TRANSACTION_STATE_LOG_REPLICATION_FACTOR: 1
      KAFKA_JMX_PORT: 9997
      KAFKA_JMX_HOSTNAME: kafka

  kafka-ui:
    container_name: kafka-ui
    image: provectuslabs/kafka-ui:latest
    ports:
      - 8082:8080
    environment:
      DYNAMIC_CONFIG_ENABLED: true
      AUTH_TYPE: "LOGIN_FORM"
      SPRING_SECURITY_USER_NAME: user
      SPRING_SECURITY_USER_PASSWORD: "SecretP@ssword"
```      


## Run
```
docker-compose -f kafka.yml up -d
```
## Connecting the broker to Kafka-UI

open kafka ui web interface 
```
127.0.0.1:8082
```

## create new cluseter 

* Cluster name - You can specify simply as "Kafka Cluster"
* Bootstrap Servers - Vessels you need to enter `PLAINTEXT://kafka:29092` or another name depending on your configuration of the parameter "KAFKA_ADVERTISED_LISTENERS" in the kafka image. 
It is relevant if you have a few replicas raised, you need to write them all. 
Apache recommend having 3 nodes with kafka on your project.
* The Metrics
  * metrics type -> JMX
  * port -> 9997 well or as you specified in your configuration
PLAINTEXT://kafka:29092


The Functional

The most important thing in this service, as for me, is the functionality of viewing the topic inside your cafka. To do this, we need to go to the Topics tab and go to the messages tab where we can see the full information for each message and filter to search for specific messages.

You can also view your consumer's and their groups in the consumer tab.

To view the configuration, you need to go to the Brokers tab and select the broker you need

The way

In the process of creating my analogue of Discord services, I faced the need to monitor my turn of messages in Kafka. I was looking for a handy tool for this, and thanks to the advice of my colleague Pasha, DevOps engineer, I drew attention to kafka-ui from the provectus team. This interface allowed me to easily track all messages in the tops without the need to manually log in to the docker container. I especially want to note the convenience and functionality of kafka-ui: viewing messages in the tops, monitoring of consumer's and their groups, as well as the ability to view the configuration and broker's metrics. Using this tool, I greatly simplified the process of working and diagnosing my system. If any of you are working with Kafka, I recommend you to pay attention to kafka-ui!

